---
title: FAQ on leaving Google
---

*Context: When I was laid off from Google, I knew I'd be deluged with
 questions.  I wrote this FAQ to share with friends and family, to
 prevent repeated explanation.  But my other goal was to help so many
 of my co-workers process and understand the repeated waves of mass
 layoffs.*


**What happened?**

Google just did another big round of layoffs.  I was part of them,
along with hundreds of others.  Many of us had long tenure or
seniority; my run was 18 years!


**Oh no!  But why were *you* targeted?**

I wasn’t personally targeted, I didn’t mess up.  In fact these layoffs
were extremely impersonal.  Google seems to be carrying out generic
initiatives to save operational cost.  I was an Engineering Director
with “only” 35 reports (rather than a typical 80+ people), and so it’s
likely that some heuristic decided that the business could do fine
without me.


**This is unfair!  After all you’ve done, how could Google do this to
 you?**

Please understand: *Google is not a person.* It’s many groups of
people following locally-varying processes, rules, and culture.  To
that end, it makes no sense to either love or be angry at “Google”;
it’s not a consciousness, and it has no sense of duty nor debt.


**Are you OK?  I’m so sorry!  How are you coping?**


I’m fine.  :-) Google culture changed dramatically last year with its
first major round of layoffs, and I saw the writing on the wall.  I’ve
been preparing myself for this (increasingly inevitable) event for
months now – which included plenty of time for all the stages of
grief.  If anything, I have a mixed set of emotions:

- enormous pride in building a Chicago Engineering office over
decades, and achieving really cool things in the Developer, Ads, and
Search divisions;

- deep gratitude in getting to work with some of the most intelligent,
creative people in the world;

- a sense of relief.  The conflict between “uncomfortable culture” and
“golden handcuffs” was becoming intolerable.


**What happens next?**

I’ve seen long-tenured leaders exit Google and go into an identity
crisis; that’s not me.  :-)

I have a [zillion hobbies and shadow
careers](https://www.red-bean.com/sussman/) – plenty of things to do
and paths to follow.  The *first* order of business, however, is
probably a long-overdue sabbatical.  After 25+ years in tech, I need a
few months to rest and recover!

I’ll soon publish a couple of ‘post-mortem’ stories.  The first will
be about my own career at Google, and the second will be about how
I’ve seen Google culture change over time.

*image: the first three software engineers at Google Chicago, 2006*

![the first three software engineers at Google Chicago,
2006](/images/eng-chi-2006.jpg)


*published January 10, 2024*
