---
title: Surprised by the Response
---

When I was laid off a couple of days ago, I knew folks would be
surprised and upset... which is why I wrote my [short
FAQ](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zgdrrKGYMO17tz9ajmObB66B4foCD1YeMvyf2SbfT1E/edit).
What I *didn't* expect, though, was the absolute flood to my DMs and
email inbox.

Over the last three years, my universe at Google gradually shrunk.  My
projects and teams became more niche; not necessarily less impactful,
but harder to measure and less visible.  My power to make decisions
became diluted, while my career options continued to diminish amid the
ongoing corporate contraction -- particularly at the leadership level.
As you'd expect, these things eroded my morale, making me question my
own effectiveness and relevance.

And so in exiting the company, I had some sense of relief that I'd be
able to find impact elsewhere.  I wrote my good-bye note with the
intent to provide perspective and calm for everyone I worked with.

But the reaction to my note was *much* more than I expected.  My DMs
and inbox have been absolutely flooded with messages of gratitude --
many from people I no longer even remember.  Every note brought up
examples of the "one time I helped them" or coached or advised, or
even inspired someone to do something.  They reminded me of every talk
I've ever given, how my examples set cultural precedent, the problems
solved on whiteboards, or even how I made them feel safe or important.
It honestly felt like the ending scene of "It's a Wonderful life".

 ( image )

So I admit: I was a victim of [recency
bias](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Recency_bias).  While I may have
felt underutilized these last few years, I've been collectively
reminded of how I've touched hundreds of lives at Google, and I'm
really grateful for that.  Thank you for the perspective!


*published January 12, 2024*
